# Logic

**The Incompleteness Theorem Refuted**

**The Problem:** Kurt Gödel’s famous Incompleteness theorem, quickly summarized in simple terms, is that while logic is able to account for its own machinations, making it a complete system, there can be no foundational axioms for arithmetic without an appeal to intuition. Due to this, mathematics will always be considered an incomplete system. The logicians’ dream of proving with completeness that 1 + 1 = 2 will forever be unattainable because of this fact.


**The Solution:** This used to be true and immutable, but numbers as we know them are changing. While we used to understand numbers that are only positive or negative within the realm of arithmetic (not including zero), our general sense of numbers has expanded with the growth of consciousness. Just as we’re now able to conceptualize and sense new colors with consciousness evolution, we’re now able to do the same with numbers. As we approach the arrival of the paradoxical set that contains all sets, we now have a third category — super numbers, numbers superpositioned between positive and negative. We know it’s evident these numbers must exist because they’re already accounted for in absolute values, which we’ll use to express super numbers for the time being.


It also helps to take into consideration that Arabic numbers were first conceptualized without negative values. As such, it becomes evident that what we first considered to be a positive 2 was in fact a neutral 2, conceptualized in relation to 1 rather than -2. This introduces even a second kind of new number (neutral numbers) with their own value systems in the field of simple arithmetic.


Neutral: 1

Negative: -1

Super: |1|

Positive: +1


**The theorem:**

Neutral numbers quantify the following subsets:

0 = {0} v ~{<0<}

1 = -1 v |1| v +1

2 = (-1&-1) v (|1|&|1|) v (+1&+1)

3 = [(-1&-1&-1) v (|1|&|1|&|1|) v (+1&+1&+1)] v [(-2&-1) v (|2|&|1|) v (+2&+1)]


This gets very complicated to express very quickly, as even up to neutral 4 will require taking into consideration (|2|&|2|) as well as (|2|&|1|&|1|) and (|3|&|1|), et al, but the overarching principles will remain the same. Beyond solving the age-old dilemma of how 1 + 1 = 2, it demonstrates this is how we conceived of the number 2 in the first place! This isn’t only applicable in a function, it demonstrates how numbers were first formulated. It changes number theory as we know it, proving once and for all that beyond their existence as relational claims, numbers are words with linguistic laws of semantics and syntax attached. It also may provide an alternative view to the imaginary number i as the square root of -1, since |1| x |1| fulfills all necessary values.


With this arrival of new number theory, we discover two surprising principles:


1. Numbers, like words, are objects with existence beyond self-reference and interrelational claims, adhering the laws of mathematics to the laws of linguistics, and vice-versa.

2. The greatest difference between the values of different base systems is in the expression of the numbers, collapsing possibility/modality into concretia/actualization in simplified terms.
    

Those who find beauty in the sublime language of mathematics and logic may understand the gravity of these two findings. Together, for the first time, this allocates capacity for poesis (read: poetics) in numerical expression. It also illustrates how super numbers provide bandwidth for the problem of possibility/modality in empirical reality, in that supernumbers may determine neutral 3 could equal -3, -1, +1, or +3. This bridges the gaps of quantum computations and allows us to tie it into the empirical realm of multiverse theory. It’s no longer a dichotomy of Universe v multiverse, the actual world may well all be considered together as the Superverse.


**Conclusion:** Numbers, like words, are intentional vibrations which determine the necessary and the possible, and act to collapse the wavelengths of possibility into the actual. As such, by discovering the foundational axioms of arithmetic, we’re also provided with the necessary language to describe all of the Universe in mathematical expression — not with cold and unemotional numbers, as some fear, but in exquisite aesthetics which account for every anomaly and deviation as part of its neverending math equation. A claim for intuition is no longer necessary to prove 1 + 1 = 2, but rather the preference to express it as 2 rather than +1&+1.

_**About the author:** Willie J. SaySo is a former logic instructor with a degree in philosophy from UC Santa Cruz. Will’s areas of expertise are primarily in logic, phenomenology, metaphysics, and the philosophies of language and the mind, who stumbled upon this solution while activating what’s become known as the Bridge Event, an experiment to expand consciousness. While Will’s currently not at liberty to discuss specifics about the Bridge Event, this proof is meant to act as catalyst for discussion rather than be taken at face value as isolated fact. Please feel free to join the conversation. What do you think?_



**Modality And Intention: How We Create What We Imagine**


In this essay I will examine the phenomenal power of intention given the framework of David Lewis’ metaphysics of modal realism. Although none of Lewis’ texts I’ve read have spoken explicitly about intention, there is plenty to infer from his writing. In fact, modal realism provides much of the necessary language to speak of the phenomenon, which really should come as no surprise. After all, the epistemic strength of his counterfactuals theory makes his system an ideal tool for any would-be intention setters, and the reasons for this will be made clear momentarily. In the course of this examination of intention in Lewis’ metaphysical framework, some critiques I give may initially seem problematic, but it should be said that I don’t believe any of my critiques are vicious, either to the phenomenon itself or to Mr. Lewis’ analysis . Regardless of conclusions drawn in this essay, I maintain Lewis’ metaphysics provides a strong foundation for the discussion of intention and illuminates an interesting pathway of perspective into its mysterious machinations


It is important first to define what I mean by the power of intention. Perhaps this is best explained through example. Keeping with Lewis’ own humorous illustrations, let’s consider a chicken that crossed a road (although true Lewis scholars may prefer imaging a donkey.) And for this thought experiment, let’s pretend the chicken has all the mental processes of an average human. The question here, of course, is why did the chicken cross the road? The answer is that the chicken had an intention to cross the road. And the chicken used that intention to manifest action from an unactualized desire to the realm of physical reality (spatiotemporally related to herself). Although the intention began as an idea in the chicken’s imagination, the chicken then willed herself to change her physical position in space (from one side of the road to the other) through a period of time (however long it took her to cross the road). And this is the power of intention: the power to actualize something (e.g. object, event, environment, emotion, et al) in a future moment in time. A painter sets intention before putting his brush to canvas. A professor sets intention when developing a syllabus. People around the world set intention into their every day life when they set their alarms at night. To set an intention is to prepare yourself in the present (through ritual or pragmatic action, like planning) to actualize a future moment in time as you presently imagine it.


And so the power of intention becomes truly fascinating when observed through the lens of David Lewis’ modal realism. Intention changes all meaning common sense gives it when possible worlds are removed of any abstraction and thrust into the harsh realm of concreteness. This is because the phenomenon of intention exists only at the intersection of the possible and the actual — where the perceptions of the possible relate to the actualization of the desired intention. There is no intention without the possible after all. Someone must first conceptualize a possible world in order to set an intention for it. And that possible world must exist for someone to conceptualize it. For instance, take the chess player who, nearing his endgame, just realized his ability to mate his opponent in five moves. How can we say he has done this?


Before we continue, let’s take a moment to define the terms of intention in Lewis‘ language. When I say that intention actualizes an event, I am using this term specifically in reference, and arguably contrarily, to Lewis’ own definition of actuality. “I analyse both ‘actual’ and ‘actualised’ as indexical terms meaning ‘this worldly’,” Lewis writes (Paradise on the Cheap, 138). To me the actual is that which is a worldmate to me — that which is spatiotemporally linked to me. That which is possible is not actual. The possible cannot be actual, in the same way that “there“ cannot be “here“. Only the actual can be actual. This is because Lewis understands actual to be an indexical term. “’Actual’ is indexical, like ‘I’ or ‘here’, or ‘now’: it depends for its reference on the circumstances of utterance,“ he writes, “to wit the world where the utterance is located” (Possible Worlds, 161). When I speak of the actual world, I am referring to the world that I reside in. Another person in a different possible world will refer to the world he resides in when he speaks of the actual world, as may my counterpart in still another possible world, but these both differ in reference from how I use the term. And while Lewis may understand actualization as a term that indicates what is or is not in the actual world, I contend that the term must have a second sense, a phenomenal sense of the willful choice of a conscious individual of a bringing to actuality — the attempt to actualize something, then, is one’s attempt to bring a currently unactualized possibility into one’s actual world.


So then, what is happening in our chess player’s endgame intuition? If after his five moves he has failed to put his opponent in checkmate it’s easy to determine what has happened — the chess player has seen a possible world that has failed to match his actual world. The intuition which founded his intention, it seems, was mistaken. Nothing here is odd or problematic. If, however, the chess player was correct in his initial assessment and succeeds in his five-move endgame, how can we say he accomplished this? Since the event he imagined occurred the way he had imagined it, can we say that he is worldmates with this event and he has seen the future in his actual world? And if so, then can we say that he has seen the actual future in his everyday ordinary ability to set intention?


The answer here, it seems, is a resolute no. For one, just because the outcome of the game in the possible world the chess player imagined matched the game’s outcome in the actual world by no means indicates that the two worlds are identical in nature. Different worlds can have identical components — be they events or objects — and still remain separate worlds from one another. In fact, Lewis claims it’s a very frequent occurrence. “Does it ever happen that something which exists according to one world and something which exists according to another are identical?” he writes. “The answer to that ought to be uncontroversial: yes, that very often happens” (Counterparts or Double Lives, 190). There is no reason to suggest esp or otherwise spooky premonition simply because events in the actual future matched events from the possible world. Things like that happen all the time. But if the chess player hasn’t seen the actual future, then what has he seen?


The event the chess player saw belonged to no one single world. It was a trans-world event that encompassed every world in which the event occurred. It wasn’t the actual world because it wasn’t actual when the player saw it, but it was an individual component shared by many possible worlds, duplicated in every world in which it occurred. Let’s say that in order to see the five move checkmate, the chess player visualized himself moving the chess pieces into formation. What he saw wasn’t actually himself playing chess, just as it wasn‘t actually his future. What he envisioned was his counterpart who resided in the possible world in which the event happened as he saw it. And though he has many counterparts who won the game as well as many who lost (and these counterparts exist necessarily so that he may win — if he wins, it means there exists a counterpart who loses), none of these counterparts, the winners or the losers, can be considered the actual chess player, just as none of these other possible worlds he saw could be considered his actual world.


It’s trickier still because the actual chess player only has one actual future to which he is intrinsically spatiotemporally linked to in his actual world. And it seems we can go no further without discussing Lewis’ perceptions on time. Lewis advocates for diverging timelines, which differentiates from a branching timeline theory in that while branching timelines create many possible worlds with every event, diverging timelines maintain that each possible world exists separately even in the moments in which it is identical to other possible worlds. An event with different possible outcomes doesn’t manifest possible worlds into being in a diverging timeline model — the possible worlds already exist separately from one another, and then differentiate, or diverge, in the outcomes at the occurrence of the event. “In divergence… there are many futures; that is,” Lewis writes, “there are many later segments of worlds that begin by duplicating initial segments of our world. But in divergence, only one of these futures is truly ours. The rest belong not to us but to our other-worldly counterparts” (Counterparts or Double Lives?, 203). So then, every world only has one future, even if from the present moment the future appears as a possibility because there are many possible worlds identical to our own up until the moment they diverge. It is the future of the diverging timelines these possible worlds provide we see when we consider the possibilities of our future, not our own.


But this seems problematic for the question of the power of intention. Suppose there are two counterparts that exist in two separate worlds. They are each counterparts of a man named Bob who lives in a one-story house. Each counterpart of Bob becomes dissatisfied with his meager dwellings and sets an intention (of equal strength to the intention of his counterpart) to build a second floor to his house. Up until this point, these two timelines are identical. But since counterfactual theory tells us that something may only happen one way if in some possible world it happens another way, let’s say one of these counterparts succeeded in his intention, while the other failed. How could this be? This is a problem that’s more nuanced than the chess player example, because while the chess player can only be right or wrong about his particular endgame strategy, there are many unexpected and unfathomable individual components that can vary the outcome of Bob’s intention. And although if you examined the second timeline you’d be able to determine the point of divergence and understand why the second failed (illness, financial woes, etc.) the fact still remains that the intention failed to yield results in the second timeline while both counterparts set intention of equal strength. How could intention fail in this instance? It’s no longer sufficient to say that Bob was simply mistaken about the world he was perceiving when he set his intention. In fact, it’s entirely possible that Bob envisioned a world that was identical to his own when he set his intention and he could still fail to achieve his goal. He could be convinced by a friend it’s just not economical for instance, or he could decide to look for a new home altogether.


But this is looking at the problem backwards. It is not enough to examine an instance in which the intention failed in its effectiveness and claim that because the intention failed, it means that intention is lame. Instead we must look into the first timeline in which the Bob counterpart succeeded in building a second story on his house and question, would that have happened if it weren’t for Bob’s intention? And the answer is in all likelihood, probably not. Second stories don’t generally appear on houses unless someone, usually the owner, takes it upon themselves to build it. Sure, people win contests and quantum theory shows anything could spontaneously manifest at any given time, but it is only because Bob set the intention in the first place that the Bob counterpart who succeeded had any chance of succeeding at all. What this example shows is that while intention does have power, it is not sufficient for actualization by itself. It necessitates determination and/or luck — this is to say, either you would need to reside in a world in which events inhibitory to the actualization are kept at a minimum (luck), or else you would need to have the continued intention to actualize your goal (determination). Just because two cars start out with the same amount of gas doesn’t mean they’ll both reach their destination. One car could crash or the driver could give up the journey. Likewise, just because two counterparts set intention does not mean they’ll both achieve their desired goal. Something could always stop the journey of actualization, or the intention-setter may stop herself.


And so we see the phenomenon of intention in the framework of Lewis’ metaphysics. In the case of Bob, Bob saw a possible world, epistemically accessible to his own, in which his house had two stories, and he decided to set an intention for it. In doing so, he is able to plan for the possible obstacles he would have to overcome (this is to say, obstacles that would present themselves to his counterparts in other possible worlds) and thus overcome them accordingly in his actual future should they arise. Something may stop Bob from achieving his intention, or he may stop himself, but by setting the intention he has given himself the opportunity to actualize his intention. And here the waters get muddy. There are still unanswered questions. Does the phenomenon of intention imply that, while trans-world travel is impossible, that it is possible to have a semblance of control to the degree to which one’s actual world differs from one’s ideal world? Or is one’s freedom to set intention an illusion, an epiphenomena that occurs in all worlds in which one’s counterparts attempt actualization (which is to say, the attempt comes before intention causally, even if it happens later temporally)? This is a question of free will, however, and it seems the answer to this is that there are possible worlds in which free will exists and there are ones in which free will is illusory. But while this essay is largely conjecture and hearsay, there are hints of Lewis’ own theory on this convoluted matter. And for this, I turn to Lewis’ term of “idealisation.”


“Idealisations are unactualized things which it is useful to compare actual things,” Lewis writes (A Philosopher‘s Paradise, 27). And this finally gives us a Lewis-ian term with which we may refer to an intention-setter’s unactualized possible future that contains the object of her desire — it is the intention-setter’s idealized future. This idealized future must be epistemically accessible from the intention-setter’s actual world, even if it is pragmatically separate. A person can set the intention to become president without ever coming close. There is nothing wrong or contradictory about this. But given a world in which Bob is able to access a desirable possible world in which his house has two stories — if free will exists and intention isn’t illusory, this knowledge gives Bob the power to manipulate his actual world to more closely resemble his idealized world. If free will is an illusion, his intention may merely signify that he resides in a world which, despite his actual future, at least shares a duplicated moment of intention with a possible world in which the intention is actualized. In any case, intention either is a useful tool for navigating one’s trajectory through her actual world to closely match the intention-setter’s idealized world, or else it merely seems to be useful in this manner. Either way, Lewis’ metaphysical framework presents a unique opportunity to examine the phenomenon, as well as provide insight as to how one may strengthen her own intentional powers.
